---
layout: post
title:  INLS 201 Forum Post 3
date:   2016-10-05
categories: jekyll update
---
<p> Before this semester I had absolutely no experience with coding. I knew it was something that I wanted to try but had never made any real effort to start. However, this semester I have found myself in three classes that require me to code, COMP 110, INLS 201, and now INLS 161. They are all beginner level classes so I am leaning many of the same skills and lesions in multiple classes even though each class is working with different types of coding languages. In COMP 110 most everything I am leaning is in Java, but for INLS 201 I am leaning to code in html. However, despite having had some experience using HTML it has still been very educational to actually learn about HTML instead of simply using a basic understanding of it to write commands. </p>
<p> Like any other form of coding that I have encountered HTML is can be viewed as a type of language. A language that is vary particular and strict about the way it is “spoken” in order for it to be understood. I say this because there are very basic but strict guide lines that must be followed when using HTML in order for it to be processed correctly. For example whenever a tag is “opened,” such as <p> when started a paragraph, it must be close once the paragraph is complete with the tag </p>.To being with HTML standing for Hyper Text Mark Up Language and it is used to create web pages. In order to make a webpage there is a basic HTML format you must follow when creating it. The first thing is to declare why type of HTML the web page will be written in, this is done by typing <!DOCTYPE> at the beginning of the document. Then to indicate that the webpage will be written in HTML <html> must be stated below it. That takes care of the procedural and behind the seen elements that must be created and now the actual content can be created. From there the title and the body can then be created. Tags aren’t just used for declaration but also for augmentation of text is also possible follows the same guidelines as any other tag. To make a certain line of text italicized you simply use the tag <i> followed by the type you wish to italicize and then close the tag. Many of the text editing tools that are comply used when creating a word document are just as easily done when using HTML. If you wanted to center a block of text all you would need to do is create a style when opening a tag. For example <p style=”text-align:center;”>. After using HTML it is easy to realize that most everything you can do uses the same formatting. This can be seen when creating a text that is hyper linked. All you do is open a tag with <a followed by href= (the url of the site you want to link to)> then the text you desire to by hyper linked and of course close the tag. Just like any other language you can start to recognize patterns and the more you practice to more intuitive it becomes. </p> 
<p> CSS of Cascading Style Sheets is essentially the same thing as HTML but in many cases are much easier to use when creating stylized web pages. CSS simply makes the customization of web pages take much less time and lets you modify everything in one command. CSS allows you to assign multiple properties and values to the same part of a website. For example it could look like </p>

body {

font-family: ‘Josefin Sans’;

color: black; 

front-size: 200%; } 

<p> I have worked with all of this information before, but I never had the opportunity to really learn about the back group of HTML and CCS. After having the opportunity to do so in this class I feel more comfortable and confident when using them. However when it comes to databases I had no previous knowledge.  </p>
<p> ERM or entity-relationship model is a way organize data though relationships. It does this by making categories with certain information that relegates to different categories with certain information. It sounds like in large quantities this would become very confusing but really when you look at everything as a whole it is very easy to search for information you are looking for. The largest category in an ERM is an entity. An entity is the broadest category there is and contains the most information, for example an entity would be a person, or books, or publishers. Those are all very board things with no real distinguishing factors or ways to further narrow down the information. That is where attributes come in to play. Attributes are more specific information about entities. So for people an attribute would be authors, for the entity books and attribute would be titles, and for the entity publishers and attribute would be names. These things are more specific but are still vague as many things can hold the same attributes and still be indistinguishable from each other. That is where primary keys come into play. Primary keys are things that unique to one object, such as a social security number, and ISBN, or an address. With primary keys you are able to find a very specific object among a sea of other data. The relationships within all of these entities are what make ERMs so useful. They allow us to easily see the connection between information that normally would be hard to find and put together.  





